CAP - BLS12-381 host functions (#1530)
stellar/stellar-protocol: core/cap-0059.md

## Preamble

```
CAP: 0059
Title: Host functions for BLS12-381
Working Group:
    Owner: Jay Geng <@jayz22>
    Authors: Jay Geng <@jayz22>
    Consulted: TBD
Status: Draft
Created: 2024-08-15
Discussion: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/discussions/1500
Protocol version: 22
```

## Simple Summary
BLS12-381 is a pairing-friendly elliptic curve which enables a new suite of applications. This CAP proposes a set of new host functions providing access to BLS12-381 curve operations.

## Working Group

As described in the preamble section.

## Motivation

> Pairing friendly elliptic curve operations are the backbone of many privacy-preserving applications, such as BLS signature, zkSNARKs, and anonymous login. BLS12-381 is one of the most well-known and widely adopted pairing friendly curves, due to its efficiency and 128-bit security. However, the curve operations are inherently computationally intensive, making them prohibitive to be implemented in a smart contract. Providing an efficient implementation for a well-chosen set of curve and field operations natively inside the Soroban host is crucial for unlocking privacy-preserving applications in smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pairing friendly elliptic curve operations are the backbone of many advanced Zero Knowledge (ZK) constructions such as as zkSNARKs, zkSTARKs, PLONK, BLS Signatures and more. These, in turn, enable a wide array of applications ranging from scaling, to identity management and privacy. BLS12-381 is one of the most well-known and widely adopted pairing friendly curves, due to its efficiency and 128-bit security. However, the curve operations are inherently computationally intensive, making them prohibitive to be implemented in a smart contract. Providing an efficient implementation for a well-chosen set of curve and field operations natively inside the Soroban host is crucial for unlocking privacy-preserving applications in smart contracts.
```

### Goals Alignment
This CAP is aligned with the following Stellar Network Goals:

  - The Stellar Network should make it easy for developers of Stellar projects
    to create highly usable products

## Abstract
11 new host functions are proposed for performing field and curve operations on BLS12-381. Definitions and the semantics of each new host function, as well as the associated new metering parameters, will be introduced and explained. 

## Specification

> 

Reviewer 2: How about specifying the length and endianness of the BytesObject?

Author: done

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we specify whether points on the curves used in the host functions are in uncompressed(x and y coordinates) or compressed (x coordinate) form? 
From XDR changes it looks like we are using uncompressed form.

Author: done

> ### New host functions

Reviewer 2: How did we come up with the list of host functions to add? Is there a mapping of use-case to host function somewhere? That way we know which use cases will work and if any host function will never be used.

Author: It was mostly discussed in https://github.com/stellar/rs-soroban-env/issues/779 
and I've also mentioned in the design rationale.
